Three Card puzzle
-----------------

Suppose we have three cards in a hat:

RB-One card is painted blue on one side and R on ther side

BB-One card is painted blue on both sides

RR- Once card is painted Red on both sides

So we have these cards in a hat, and we may mix them,

We pick a card at random and we put it on the table okay?

So here we have blue card on the table.

And the color of the side that facing is call it U.

it's B or R, okay?

So here is the bet that I'm suggesting we make

If other side of the card has a different color, I will pay you $1.

If other side of the card has same color, you pay me $1 okey?

And I think that this is fair.

Why do I think fair? Because suppose it's red, actually it's blue. So what can this card be?

It can be either blue on both sides or blue and red okey?

So there are two options, one is with the other side being red and one is with the other side is blue,

So They both have the same probability of happening,

So having a bet one to one is fair Okey?

So let's see this one.

Yeah, actually I got red, so I pay you $1.

So to decide what is the probability of winning a dollar or lossing a dollar, let's use a Monte Carlo Simulation.

So we're going  to have a little program that generates at random an order for the cards, chooses one of the cards.

And then chooses a side for the card, and then prints out.

the card and the outcome of whether which side wins, okey?

So earch time I am getting slightly different outcomes.

It shows that different is 17 times, and same is 33 times.

So clearly, different happens much fewer times then same, okey?

So  I basically have a game that is, even as simple as it is, it's going  to, it's unfair to you.

And I'm going to gain money on average from playing it.

Okey, so as we saw, the simulation does not agree with the argument we made before. the argument must be false.

In the simulation, the two sides have the same color about twice the number of times that they have number different colors.

So they have about twice the probability.

So what does that mean?
 
it means that you, if you play this game, you are twice as likely to lose a doller as you  are to win.

ane because of that, on average, you are going to lose 33 cents per iteration because you lose $1 with probability 2/3, 

and you gain a dollar with probabilty 1/3.

So your losing 33 cents on each itteration.

so heres an alternative argument.

So if we pick card at random, then 2/3 of the time we pick a card where the two sides have the same color, and 
only 1/3 times where the color is different.

So basically explains what we saw.

So supposedly now we understand the game but the problem is original orgument is also sounds convincing but it is wrong.

So how can we distinguish between this argument.

And another argument and say which one is right without doing a simulation?

Okay, simulation is fine, but sometimes, as you saw already, running a simulation to answer a probability question
is hard, you have to run for a long, long time, and you get only an approximate result, okay?

So, to be sure that we need, the argument is correct, we need more formalism.

That's the point of this story.

We need concepts like outcome and event, and those are things that we're going to start talking.

